~ 1 Peter 5 ~

Elders the among you I exhort, he a fellow elder ^being^, and witness of the of
Christ sufferings, the also of the being about to be revealed glory sharer;
shepherd the among you flock of God, exercising oversight not by compulsion, but
willingly, nor eagerly for base gain, but readily; nor as exercising lordship
over the allotments, but examples becoming of the flock; and ^at^ the appearing
of the chief shepherd, you will receive the unfading of glory crown. Likewise,
younger once b subject to older ones; all and to one another, being subject,
humility put on, because God proud ones sets ^himself^ against, to the humble
once but he give grace. Be humbled, then under the might hand of God, that you
he may exalt in time; all the anxiety of you casting onto him, because to him it
matters concerning you. Be sensible, watch, because the adversary of you, ^the^
devil, as a lion roaring walks about seeking someone he may devour; whom resist
firm in the faith, knowing the same sufferings in the in ^the^ world of you
brotherhood are being completed. The now God of all grace, the ^one^ calling us
to the eternal of him glory in Christ Jesus, a little having suffered himself
perfect you, confirm, strengthen establish ^you^. To him the glory and the might
to the ages of the ages. Amen. Through Silvanus to you the faithful brother, as
I reckon, via a few ^words^ I wrote, exhorting and witnessing this to be ^the^
true grace of God, in which you stand. Greets you in the Babylon fellow elected,
and Mark the son of me. Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to you, all
those in Christ Jesus. Amen.
