~ 1 Peter 4 ~

Christ therefore having suffered for us in ^the^ flesh, also you the same mind
arm yourselves, because he suffering in ^the^ flesh has ceased from sin; for the
no longer of men in ^the^ lusts, but in ^the^ will of God the remaining in ^the^
flesh to live time. Sufficient for to us the having passed away time of life of
the will of the nations having worked out, having gone ^on^ in wantonness,
lusts, drunkennesses, parties, carousings, and unlawful idolatries. While they
are surprised not running with you into the same of dissoluteness overflow,
blaspheming; who will give account to the ^one^ ready having to judge living and
dead. For this for indeed to dead ones was the preached gospel that they might
be judged indeed according to men in ^the^ flesh; might live but according to
God in ^the^ spirit. Of all things bug the end has drawn near. Be disciplined,
then, and be sensible to prayers; before all things and to yourselves love
fervent having, because love will cover a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to
one another without murmurings; each one as he received a gift, to yourselves it
ministering as good stewards of ^the^ manifold grace of God; if any speaks, as
^the^ words of God; if any ministers, as by strength which suppliers God, that
in all things may be glorified God through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory
and the might to the ages of the ages. Amen. Beloved, do not be astonished ^at^
among you fiery trial, for trial of you happening, as a surprise to you
occurring, but as you share the of Christ sufferings, rejoice, that also at the
revelation of the glory of him you may rejoice exultingly if you are reviled in
^the^ name of Christ, blessed ^are you^, for the of glory and the of God spirit
on you rests; according to truly them, he is blasphemed; according to but you,
he is glorified. Not for any of you let suffer as a murderer, or thief, or an
evildoer, or as a meddler; if but as a Christian, not let him be ashamed, to
glorify but God in respect this. Because the time to begin the judgement from
the house of God; if and firstly from us, what ^will be^ the end of those
disobeying the of God gospel? And if the righteous one scarcely is saved, the
ungodly and SINNER WHERE WILL APPEAR? So as indeed those suffering according to
will Godâ€™s, as to a faithful Creator, let him commit the souls of themselves in
well-doing.
