~ 1 Peter 1 ~

Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to ^the^ elect sojourners of ^the^ dispersion
of Pontus, of Galatia, of Cappadocia, of Asia, and of Bithynia, according to
foreknowledge God's, the Father, in sanctification of ^the^ Spirit, to obedience
and sprinkling of ^the^ blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you, and peace, be
multiplied. Blessed ^be^ the God and Father of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ, the
^one^ according to much of Him mercy, having regenerated us to a hope living
through ^the^ resurrection of Jesus Christ from ^the^ dead to an inheritance
incorruptible and undefiled and unfading, having been kept in Heaven for you by
^the^ power of God, being guarded through faith to a salvation ready to be
revealed in time ^the^ last. In which you exult, a little yet if needful it is
grieving by manifold trials, that the proving of you of the faith, much more
precious than gold of perishing, through fire yet being proved, may be found to
praise and honor and glory at ^the^ revelation of Jesus Christ; whom not having
seen, you love, in whom yet not seeing, believing, but; you exult with joy
unspeakable and glorified, obtaining the end of the faith of you, ^the^
salvation of ^your^ souls. About which salvation sought out and searched out
prophets the concerning the for you grace prophesying, searching for what or
what sort of time made clear the in them Spirit of Christ, testifying beforehand
of ^belonging^ Christ sufferings, and the after these glories. To whom it was
revealed that not to themselves, to us but they ministered the same, which now
were announced to you through those having preached to gospel to you in ^the^
Spirit Holy sent from Heave, into which things long angels to look into.
Therefore, girding up the loins of the mind of you, being sober, perfectly hope
on the being brought to you grace at ^the^ revelation of Jesus Christ. As
children of obedience, not fashioning yourselves to the formerly in the
ignorance of you lusts, but according to the calling you Holy One, also
yourselves holy in all conduct become. Because it has been written: holy be,
because I holy am. And if ^as^ Father you call on ^him^ the ^one^ without
respect to persons judging according to the of each one work, in fear the of the
sojourning of you time pass, knowing that not with corruptible things, silver or
gold, you were redeemed from the worthless of you living handed down from
fathers, but with precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and unspotted, of
Christ, having been foreknown before ^the^ foundation of ^the^ world, revealed
but in ^the^ last of the times because of you, those through him believing in
God, the ^one^ raising him from ^the^ dead, and glory to him having given, so as
the faith of you and hope to be in God. The souls of you having purified in the
obedience of the truth, through ^the^ Spirit to brotherly love unpretended, from
^the^ pure heart one another love fervently, having been regenerated not by seed
corruptible, but incorruptible through word ^the^ living of God and remaining to
the age. Because all flesh ^is^ as grass, and all ^the^ glory of man as ^the^
flower of grass; was dried the grass, and the flower of it fell out, the but
word of ^the^ Lord remains to the age. This and is the word preached as gospel
to you.
