~ 1 Thessalonians 5 ~

|1| Concerning and the times and the seasons, brothers, not need have you to be
written, yourselves for accurately you know that ^the^ day of ^the^ Lord as a
thief at night so it comes. When for they say, Peace and safety! Then sudden
them comes on destruction, as the travail to the pregnant woman, and not at all
may they escape, you but, brothers, not are in darkness, that the day you as a
thief should overtake; all you sons of light are, and sons of day, not we are of
night, nor of darkness; therefore not let us sleep as also the rest, but let us
watch and be sober, those for sleeping, by night sleep, and those being drunk by
night are drunk; we but, of day being, let us be sober, putting on a breastplate
of faith and of love, and a helmet of hope of salvation; because not appointed
us God to wrath, but for obtainment of salvation through the Lord of us, Jesus
Christ, the ^one^ having died on behalf of us, that whether we watch or we
sleep, together with him we may live. So comfort one another, and build up one
the other, as indeed you do. We ask and you, brothers, to know those laboring
among you, and take the lead of you in ^the^ Lord, and warning you, and esteem
them most exceedingly in love because of the work of them. Be at peace among
yourselves. We exhort and you, brothers, warn the insubordinate. Comfort the
faint-hearted, care for those being weak, be long-suffering toward all. See
^that^ not anyone evil for evil to anyone returns, but always the good follow
even toward one another and toward all. Always rejoice, without ceasing pray. In
everything give thanks, this for ^is^ ^the^ will of God in Christ Jesus to you.
The spirit not do quench, prophecies not despise. All things test, the good hold
fast. From every form of evil keep back. Himself and, the God of peace, may he
sanctify you fully, and whole of you the spirit, and the soul, and the body,
blamelessly at the coming of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ may be kept. Faithful
^is^ he calling you, who also will do ^it^. Brothers, pray concerning us. Greet
the brothes all with kiss a holy. I charge you by the Lord to be read the
epistle to all the holy brothers. The grace of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ ^be^
with you. Amen.
