~ 1 Thessalonians 4 ~

For the rest, then, brothers, we beseech you and we exhort in ^the^ Lord Jesus,
even as you received from us how it behoves you to walk and to please God, that
you abound more, you know for what injunctions we have you through the Lord
Jesus, this for is ^the^ will of God, the sanctifications of you, to abstain you
from fornication, to know each one of you the of himself vessel to possess in
purity and honor, not in passion of lust, even as also the nations not knowing
God, not to go beyond and to overreach in the matter the brother of him, because
^the^ avenger the Lord ^is^ concerning all these, as indeed we before told you
and solemnly witnessed not for called us God to uncleanness, but in purity.
Therefore those despising not man despises, but God, the ^one^ also giving the
Spirit of him the holy to you, concerning and brotherly love, no need you have
to write to you, yourselves for you taught by God are to love one another;
indeed for you do it toward all the brothers in all Macedonia. We exhort but
you, brothers, to abound more, and to try earnestly to be quiet, and to practice
the own, and to work with the own hands of you, as you we enjoined, that you may
walk becomingly toward those outside, and of nothing need you may have. Not I do
desire and you to be ignorant, brothers, about those sleeping, lest you grieve
as also the rest not having hope. If for we believe that Jesus died and rose
again, so also God those having slept through Jesus will bring with him. This
for to you we say by a word of ^the^ Lord, that we the living remaining to the
coming of the Lord, not at all may go before those having slept; because himself
the Lord with a word of command by a voice of an archangel, and with a trumpet
of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in Christ will rise again
firstly, then we the living remaining together with them will be caught up in
clouds to a meeting of the Lord in ^the^ air, so always with ^the^ Lord we will
be. So then comfort one another with words these.
