~ 1 Thessalonians 3 ~

So no longer enduring, we were pleased to be left in Athens alone, and sent
Timothy the brother of us and minister of God, and fellow-worker of us in the
gospel of Christ, to establish you and to encourage you about the faith of you
no one to be drawn aside by afflictions these. Yourselves for you know that to
this we are appointed, even for when with you we were, we said before to you
that we are about to be afflicted, as also it happened, and you know. Therefore
I also no longer enduring sent to know the faith of you, lest somehow tempted
you the tempting ^one^, and in vain became the labor of us. Now but coming
Timothy to us from you, and announcing good news to us ^of^ the faith and the
love of you, and that you have remembrance of us good always, longing us to see,
even as also we you, for this reasons we were comforted, brothers, over you on
all the affliction and distress of us through the of you faith, because now we
live if you stand in ^the^ Lord. What for thanks are we able to God to return
concerning you, over all the joy ^with^ which we rejoice by you before the God
of us, night and day super-abundantly petitioning for to see of you the face,
and to complete the things lacking in the faith of you? Himself and, the God and
Father of us, and the Lord of us, Jesus Christ, may He direct the way of us to
you, you and the Lord make to abound and to exceed in love toward one another
and toward all, even as also we toward you, to establish of you the hearts
blameless in holiness before the God and Father of us, in the presence of the
Lord of us, Jesus Christ, with all the saints of him.
