~ 2 Thessalonians 1 ~

Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of Thessalonians in God ^the^ Father
of us and ^the^ Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace from God ^the^ Father
of us and ^the^ Lord Jesus Christ. To give thanks we ought to God always
concerning you, brothers, even as right it is; because grows exceedingly the
faith of you and multiples the love one of each all of you to one another, so as
us ourselves in you to boast among the churches of God for the patience of you
and faith in all the persecutions of you and the afflictions which you endure, a
clear token of the just judgment of God for to be counted worthy you of the
kingdom of God, for which indeed you suffer, since a just thing with God to
repay to those afflicting you affliction, and to you those being afflicted rest
with us, at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from Heaven with angels of power of
Him, in fire of flame, giving full vengeance to those not knowing God, and to
those not obeying the gospel of the Lord of us Jesus Chris, who ^the^ penalty
will pay, destruction eternal from ^the% face of the Lord and from the glory of
the strength of Him, when He comes to be glorified in the saints of Him, and to
be admired in all those believing, because was believed the testimony of us to
you in day that. For which indeed we pray always concerning you, that you may
count worthy of the calling the God of us, and may fulfill every good pleasure
of goodness and work of faith in power, so as may be glorified the name of the
Lord of us, Jesus Christ in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of the
God of us and ^the^ Lord Jesus Christ.
