~ 2 Thessalonians 3 ~

For the rest, pray, brothers, about us, that the word of the Lord may run and be
glorified, as in deed with you, and that we be delivered from perverse and evil
men; is not for all of the faith. Faithful but is the lord, who will establish
you and will guard from the evil one. We are persuaded and in ^the^ Lord as to
you, that what things we enjoin you both you do and will do. The and Lord direct
of you the hearts into the love of God, and into the patience of Christ. We
enjoin and you, brothers, in the name of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ, to draw
back you from every brother insubordinately walking, and not according to the
tradition which you received from us. Yourselves for, you know how it is right
to imitate us, because not we were disorderly among you, nor ^as^ a gift bread
ate from anyone, but by labor and toil night and day working for not to burden
anyone of you; not that not we have authority, but that ourselves an example we
give to you for to imitate us, even for when we were with you, this we enjoined
you: If anyone not desires to work, not let him eat. We hear ^of^ for some
walking among you disorderly, nothing working, but working all about, and such
we enjoin and exhort through the Lord of Us, Jesus Christ, that with quietness
working the of themselves bread they may eat. You and, brothers, do not lose
heart ^in^ well-doing. If and any not obeys the word of us via the epistle, this
one mark, and do not associate with him, that he be shamed; and not as an enemy
esteem ^him^, but warn as a brother. Himself and, the Lord of peace give to you
the peace continually in every way. The Lord ^be^ with you all you. The greeting
by my hand, of Paul, which is a sign in every epistle; thus I write. The grace
of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ ^be^ with all you. Amen.
