~ 2 Thessalonians 2 ~

We ask and you, brothers, by the presence of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ, and
of us gathering together to Him, for not quickly to be shaken you from the mind,
nor to be troubled, neither through a spirit, nor through speech, nor through
epistle, as through us, as that is come the day of the Christ. Let not anyone
you deceive, by no way, because unless comes the falling away first, and is
revealed the man of sin, the son of perdition, he opposing and exalting himself
over everything being called God, or object of worship, so as him in the temple
of God as God to sit, showing himself that he is a God. Do not you remember that
yet being with you, these things told you? And now the thing rest remaining you
know, for to be revealed him in the of him time, the for mystery already works
of lawlessness, only he restraining now, until out of ^the^ midst it comes. And
then will be revealed the lawless one, whom the Lord will consume by the spirit
of the mouth of Him, and bring to nothing by the brightness of the coming of
Him; of whom is the coming according to the working of Satan in all power and
signs and wonders of a lie, and with all deceit of unrighteousness in those
being lost; because the love of the truth not they received for to be saved
them. And because of this will send them to them God a working of error for to
believe them the lie, that may be judged all those not believing the truth, but
having had pleasure in unrighteousness. We but ought to thank God always
concerning you, brothers, having been loved by ^the^ Lord, because chose you God
from ^the^ beginning to salvation in sanctification of ^the^ Spirit and belief
of ^the^ truth, to which He called you through the gospel of us, to obtainment
of ^the^ glory of the Lord of us, Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand, and
hold the traditions which you were taught either by word of by an epistle of us.
Himself and the Lord of us, Jesus Christ, and the God and Father of us, the
^one^ loving us and giving comfort eternal and a hope good by grace, may he
comfort of you the hearts and establish you in every word and work good.
