~ 1 Thessalonians 2 ~

= Paul's Ministry in Thessalonia =

|1| For you yourselves know, brothers, [the plural of the Greek word ^adelphoi^
here translated as ^brothers^ refers to siblings in a family; depending on
context, ^adelphoi^ may refer either to men or to both men and women who are
siblings; word also appears in 1:4, 2:9, 14, 17; 3:7; 4:1, 10, 13; 5:1, 4, 12,
14, 25, 27] that our ^visit^ [literally ^entrance^] to you, has not been in
vain. {1Th 1:5, 9; 1Th 1:9; 2Th 1:10} |2| But also having suffered before and
having been insulted, as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to
speak to you the gospel of God, ^amid^ [literally ^in^] much struggle. [or
^conflict^ or ^opposition^] {Ac 4:13; Ac 14:5, 19; Ac 16:12, 19-24; Ac 17:1-9;
Php 1:30} |3| For our exhortation [or ^appeal^] {Ac 13:15} ^was^ not ^in^
[literally ^of^] error. Nor of uncleanness. {1Th 4:7} Nor in guile. [or
^deceit^] {2Co 2:17; 2Co 4:2; 2Th 2:11} |4| But as we have been approved by God
to be entrusted ^with^ the gospel, {Ga 2:7; 1Tm 1:11} so we speak, not to
please men, but God, {Ro 2:29; 2Co 2:17; Ga 1:10} the ^one who^ tests [or
^approves^ or ^examines^] our hearts. {Ro 8:27} |5| For neither then did we
^use^ flattering words, [or ^speech^] as you know, nor with covetousness
pretext; {2Pt 2:3} God ^is^ witness. {1Th 2:10} |6| Nor ^did we^ seek glory
from men, {Jhn 5:41} neither from you, nor from others, being able ^to assert
our authority^ [or ^to be burdensome^; literally ^being able to be with
heaviness^] as apostles of Christ. {2Co 4:5; 2Co 11:7-11} |7| But we were
gentile [some manuscripts read ^like young children^] in your midsts, as when a
nurse should cherish her ^own^ children. [some manuscripts use the word
^infants^] {1Th 2:11; 2Tm 2:24}

|8| ^Having such^ longing for you, [or ^being so fond of you^] we were well-
pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our ^own^ souls,
[or ^lives^] because you have become beloved to us. {2Co 12:15; 1Jn 3:16} |9|
For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil, working night and day, in order
to not put a burden on anyone of you, ^while^ we proclaimed to you the gospel
of God. {Ac 18:3; Ro 1:1; 2Co 11:9; Php 4:16; 2Th 3:8} |10| You ^are^
witnesses, and ^so is^ God, ^to^ how holily and righteously and blamelessly we
were to you, those believing, {Ro 1:9; 2Co 1:12; 1Th 1:5; 1Th 2:5} |11| even as
you know how each one of you, as a father his own children, {1Co 4:14; 1Th 2:7;
1Th 4:6; 1Th 5:14; 1Jn 2:1} |12| exhorting you and consoling and testifying for
you to walk worthily of God, {2Co 4:6; Eph 4:1; Eph 4:17} ^who^ calls you {Ro
8:28; 1Th 5:24} to his kingdom and glory. {2Th 2:14; 1Pt 5:10}

|13| And we therefore give thanks to God without ceasing, [or ^constantly^]
{1Th 1:2} that having received ^the^ word of God from hearing us, you welcomed
^it^, {Ro 1:8; Ga 4:14} not ^as^ a word of men, [the Greek word ^anthropoi^
translated here as ^men^ can refer to both men and women] but as it truly is, a
word of God, {Mt 10:20} which also works in you, those believing. {Ro 10:17; He
4:2; He 4:12} |14| For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God
being in Judea in Christ Jesus, {1Co 10:32; Ga 1:22; 1Th 1:6; 2Th 1:4-5}
because you ^have^ also suffered these things by ^your^ own fellow countrymen,
as also they ^did^ by the Jews, [Greek word ^Ioudaioi^ translated here ^Jews^
can refer to Jewish religious leaders and others under their influence who
opposed the Christian faith] |15| those ^who^ both killed the Lord Jesus {Lk
24:20; Ac 2:23} and ^their^ own prophets and ^have^ driven us ^out^ [or
^persecuted us^] {Mt 5:12; Ac 7:52} and ^are^ not pleasing God and ^are^
contrary to all men, |16| hindering us to speak to the nations, {Ac 22:21, 22}
that they be saved, to fill up their sins always, but the wrath has come on
them to ^the^ end. [or ^completely^, ^forever^, or ^altogether^] {Ge 15:16; Da
8:23; 1Co 10:33; 1Th 1:10}

= Paul Desires to See the Thessalonians =

|17| But we brothers, being taken away from you for an hour of time, [or ^a
short time^] in face, [or ^in person^] not in heart, [or ^in spirit^] were more
abundantly eager with much desire to see your face. {1Co 5:3; Co 2:5; 1Th 3:10}
|18| Therefore we desired to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and twice,
[or ^again and again^ or ^more than once^] and Satan hindered us, {Mt 4:10; Ro
1:13; Ro 15:22} |19| For what ^is^ our hope of joy or crown of boasting? {Is
62:3; 2Co 1:14} ^Are^ not even you before our Lord, Jesus Christ at his coming?
[or ^presence^] {Mt 16:27; Mt 24:3; Mk 8:38; 1Co 15:23; Php 4:1; 1Th 3:13; 1Th
4:15; 1Th 5:23; 2Pt 1:16; 1Jn 2:28; Rv 1:7} |20| For you are our glory and joy.
{2Co 1:14}
