~ Philemon 1 ~

= Greeting =

|1| Paul, a prisoner {Eph 3:1; Phm 1:9; Phm 1:23} of Christ Jesus, and Timothy
{Ac 16:1} our brother, {2Co 1:1; Ga 3:26; Co 1:1} to Philemon the beloved and
our fellow worker, |2| and to Apphia the beloved, and to Archippus {Co 4:17}
our fellow soldier, {Php 2:25; 2Tm 2:3} and to the church in your house:
[likely meaning ^to the church that meets in your house^] {Ro 16:5}

|3| Grace and peace to you ^all^ [plural form of the Greek word for ^you^; also
in verses 22 and 25; whereas elsewhere in this letter the word ^you^ is
singular] from God our father and ^the^ Lord Jesus Christ.

= Philemon's Love and Faith =

|4| I thank my God, {Ro 1:8} always making mention of you ^in^ my prayers, {Ro
1:10} |5| hearing of your love and faith which you have ^in^ the Lord Jesus,
{Ac 20:21} and to all the saints, [or ^holy ones^] {Eph 1:15; Co 1:4; 1Th 3:6}
|6| so ^that^ [or ^as^] the fellowship of your faith may be ^effective^ [or
^operative^] in a full knowledge of every good thing {Php 1:9; Co 1:9; Co 3:10}
in you for Christ Jesus. |7| For we have much joy and encouragement {2Co 7:4;
2Co 7:13} ^because of^ [or ^over^] your love, ^such^ that the ^hearts^
[literally ^bowels^] of the saints [or ^holy ones^] have been refreshed {Ro
15:32; 1Co 16:18; Phm 1:20} through you, brother.

= Paul's Plea for Onesimus =

|8| Therefore, ^although I^ have enough [literally ^much^] boldness in Christ
{2Co 3:12; 1Th 2:6} to ^command^ [literally ^enjoin^] you ^to do^ the fitting
thing, |9| I ^would^ rather beseech ^you out of^ [or ^because of^] love; ^since
I am^ such a ^person^ [literally ^a one being as^] as Paul, an ^old man^,
[literally the ^aged one^; some translate it to ^an ambassador^] and now also a
prisoner of Jesus Christ. {1Tm 1:12; Phm 1:23} |10| I beseech you concerning my
child, {1Th 2:11} whom I fathered [Paul led Onesimus to Christ; {1Co 4:15}]
^while I was in bondage^, {Ac 21:33} [literally ^in the bonds of me^] Onesimus,
[the name ^Onesimus^ means ^useful^] {Co 4:9} |11| then useless to you, but now
useful to you and to me, |12| whom I sent back to you. Receive even him, this
is of my ^heart^, [literally ^bowels^; alternatively ^receive him as a part of
myself^] |13| whom I resolved with myself to hold, that for you he ^would^
minister to me in the bonds of the gospel. {Php 1:7} |14| But I was willing to
do nothing without your consent, ^so^ that you ^would^ be good not by
necessity, but by willingness. {1Co 4:14-21; 2Co 9:7; 1Pt 5:2} [literally ^by
way of necessity^ and ^by way of willingness^] |15| Perhaps for this ^reason^
he was separated ^from you^ for an hour, that you might ^have him back^
eternally, |16| no longer as a slave, but beyond a slave, a brother beloved,
especially to me, how much more to you both in ^the^ flesh and in ^the^ Lord.

|17| If then you have me ^as^ a partner, {2Co 8:23} receive him as me. |18| And
if he wronged you ^in^ anything, or owes ^you^, ^charge^ that to me: [literally
^this to me reckon^] {Ge 43:9} |19| I Paul have written ^this^ with my ^own^
hand, {1Co 16:21} I will repay; that I ^may^ not say to you that also indeed
you owe yourself to me. |20| Yes, brother, may I have help from you in ^the^
Lord; refresh my ^heart^ [or ^bowels^] in ^the^ Lord. {1Co 16:18; Phm 1:7} |21|
Having trusted your obedience, I wrote to you, know that you ^will do^ even
beyond what I say |22| And also: Prepare lodging for me. I hope that through
your prayers I will be given to you. {2Co 1:11; Php 1:19; Php 2:24; He 13:19}

= Final Greetings =

|23| My fellow captive in Christ Jesus, {Ro 16:7; Co 4:10} Epaphras, {Co 1:7;
Co 4:12} greets you, |24| ^as do^ my fellow workers Mark, {Ac 12:12; Ac 12:25;
Ac 15:37-39; Co 4:10} Aristarchus, {Ac 19:29; Ac 27:2; Co 4:10} Demas, {Co
4:14; 2Tm 4:10-22} ^and^ Luke.

|25| The grace of our Lord, Jesus Christ, ^be^ with your spirit. Amen. [an
early manuscript includes the word ^amen^] {Ga 6:18; 2Tm 4:22}
