~ James 3 ~

= Controlling the Tongue =

|1| Not many ^of you should^ become teachers, my brothers, {Mt 23:8; Ro
2:20-29; 1Tm 1:7} knowing that we will receive greater [or ^stricter^]
judgment. |2| For we all stumble ^in^ many ^ways^. {1Ki 8:46; Ro 3:9-20; Ja
2:10; 1Jn 1:8} If anyone stumbles not in word, this ^is^ a mature man, {Ps
39:1; Prv 10:19; Mt 12:34-37; Ja 1:26; 1Pt 3:10} able also to bridle the whole
body.

|3| Behold, we put bits in the mouths of the horses, for them to obey us, and
we turn about their whole body. {Ps 32:9} |4| Behold also the ships, being so
great, [^great^ as in ^large^] and being driven by hard [or ^strong^] winds,
are directed by a very little rudder, ^to^ where the impulse of the ^person^
steering purposes. [or ^desires^ or ^directs^] |5| So also the tongue is a
little ^part of the body^, [literally ^member^] and ^yet it^ boasts ^of^ great
things. {Ps 12:3-4; Ps 73:8-9} Behold how a little fire [or ^spark^] kindles
[or ^sets aflame^] ^a^ great wood; [or ^large forest^] {Prv 26:20-28} |6| and
the tongue ^is^ a fire, {Ps 120:2-3; Prv 16:27} the world of iniquity; so the
tongue is set among ^our parts^, [literally ^the members of us^] ^corrupting^
[literally ^spotting^] all the body, {Mt 12:36; Mt 15:11; Mt 15:18; Mt 15:19}
and inflaming the course of nature, [or ^sets the course of life on fire^] and
being inflamed by ^hell^. {Mt 5:22} [The literal word used instead of ^hell^ is
^Gehenna.^ ^Gehenna^ is derived from a place outside ancient Jerusalem known in
the Hebrew Bible as the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, one of the two principal
valleys surrounding the Old City. The term has been interpretted as analogous
to the concept of Hell. In the New Testament, the term ^Gehenna^ is used as a
name for the place of punishment of the damned. Jews used the name of this
valley to designate the abode of the damned.]

|7| For every ^creature^, [or ^nature^ or ^species^] both of beasts and of
birds, both of reptiles and of sea animals, is tamed and has been tamed by the
human ^creature^; [or ^nature^] |8| but the tongue no ^man^ [literally ^one of
men^] is able to tame; ^it is^ an unrestrainable evil, full of poison,
death-dealing. {Ps 140:3; Ec 10:11; Ro 3:13} |9| By this we bless ^our^ God and
Father, and by this we curse men having come ^into^ being according to ^the^
image of God. {Ge 1:26, 27; 1Co 11:7} |10| Out of the same mouth comes forth
blessing and cursing; it is not fitting, my brothers, ^for^ these things to be
so. |11| ^Can^ the fountain out of the same hole send forth the sweet [or
^fresh^] and the bitter? |12| Is ^it^ not ^impossible^, [or ^able^] my
brothers, ^for^ a fig-tree to produce olives or a vine figs? {Mt 7:16} So
neither ^can^ a fountain produce salt and sweet [or ^fresh^] water.

= Wisdom from Above =

|13| Who ^is^ wise and knowing among you? Let him show ^it^ {Ja 2:18} by good
behavior, his works [or ^deeds^] {Ja 1:21; 1Pt 2:12} in meekness of wisdom.
|14| But if you have bitter jealousy [or ^strife^] and contention {Ac 5:17; Ro
2:8; 2Co 12:20; Ga 5:20; Php 1:17; Php 2:3; Ja 3:16} in your heart, do not
exult over [or ^boast about^] ^it^ and lie against the truth. {1Tm 2:4; Ja
1:18; Ja 5:19} |15| This is not the wisdom ^that^ comes down from above, {Ja
1:17; Ja 3:17} but ^is^ earthly, {1Co 2:6; 1Co 3:19} beastly, [or ^natural^ or
^unspiritual^] {2Co 1:12; Jud 19:} devilish. {2Th 2:9; 1Tm 4:1; Rv 2:24} |16|
For where ^there is^ jealousy and contention, {Ro 2:8; 2Co 12:20; Ga 5:20, 21;
Ja 3:14} there is confusion and every foul deed.

|17| But the wisdom from above {1Co 2:6; Ja 1:17} is ^first of all^ [literally
^firstly^] truly pure, {2Co 7:11; Ja 4:8} then peacable, {Mt 5:9; He 12:11}
forebearing, yielding, {Ti 3:2} full of mercy {Lk 6:36; Ja 2:13} and good
fruits, not partial and not pretended. {Ro 12:9; 2Co 6:6} |18| And ^the^ fruit
of righteousness {Prv 11:18; Is 32:17; Ho 10:12; Am 6:12; Ga 6:8; Php 1:11} in
peace is sown for those making peace. {Mt 5:9; Ga 6:7-8}
