~ James 2 ~

= The Sin of Favoritism =

|1| My brothers, ^do^ not with ^partiality^ [literally ^respect^] to persons
{Le 19:15; De 1:17; Jb 34:19; Prv 24:23; Ac 10:34; Ja 2:9} ^keep^ [literally
^have^] the faith of our Lord of glory, {Ac 7:2; 1Co 2:8} Jesus Christ. [likely
meaning "Do not show favoritism while keeping the Christian faith."] |2| For if
a gold-fingered man in fancy [or ^fine^ or ^bright^] clothing comes into your
synagogue, and also a poor one in shabby clothing, |3| and you look on the
^one^ wearing the fancy clothing and say to him, "You sit well here," and to
the poor one you say, "You stand there or sit here under my footstool," |4| did
^you^ not even make a ^discrimination^ [literally ^difference^] among
yourselves {Jhn 7:24} and become judges ^with^ evil thoughts? [or ^motives^ or
^reasonings^] |5| Hear, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor of
this world {1Co 1:26-28} ^to be^ rich in faith {Lk 12:21; Rv 2:9} and heirs of
the kingdom {Mt 5:3; Mt 25:34} which He promised to those ^who^ love Him. {Ja
1:12} |6| But you dishonored the poor one. {1Co 11:22} Do not the rich ones
oppress you, and they drag you to court? [literally ^judgment seats^] {Ac 8:3;
Ac 16:19} |7| Do not they blaspheme the good name ^to whom^ you ^were^ called?
[literally ^the good name called upon you^] {Ac 11:26; 1Pt 4:16}

|8| If you indeed fulfill the royal law [or ^the law of our King^] according to
Scripture: "You will love your neighbor as yourself," {Le 19:18; Mt 5:43; Mt
7:12} you do well. |9| But ^if^ you ^show partiality^, [literally ^respect
persons^] {De 1:17; Ac 10:34; Ja 2:1} you work sin, being reproved [or
^convicted^] by the law as transgressors. |10| For ^he^ who keeps all the law,
but stumbles in one, {Ja 3:2; 2Pt 1:10; Jud 1:24} he has become guilty ^of^
all. {Mt 5:19; Ga 3:10; Ga 5:3} |11| For he ^who^ said, "Do not ^commit^
[literally ^do^] adultery," also said, "Do not murder." {Ex 20:13-14; De
5:17-18} But if you do not ^commit^ adultry, but you murder, ^you^ have become
a transgressor of law. |12| So speak and so do, {Mt 16:27; Ja 1:25} as though
^you are^ [literally ^being^] about to be judged ^by^ the law of freedom. |13|
For the judgment will be unmerciful to the one not doing mercey; and mercey
exults [or ^triumphs^; literally ^boasts against^] over judgment. {Prv 21:13;
Mt 5:7; Mt 9:13; Mt 12:7; Mt 18:32-35; Lk 6:37-49}

= Faith and Works =

|14| What ^is^ the profit, my brothers, if anyone ^claims^ [literally ^says^]
to have faith, but he has not works? {Mt 7:26; Ja 1:22-25} Is the faith able to
save him? |15| If but a brother or a sister are naked {Lk 3:11} and may be
lacking of daily food, {Mt 25:35-36} |16| and ^if^ anyone of you says to them,
"Go in peace, be warmed and filled," but you ^do^ not give them the necessities
of the body, what ^is^ the profit? [or ^benefit^] {Lk 3:11; 1Jn 3:17-18} |17|
So indeed faith, if it has not works, is by itself dead. [or ^dead by its own
standards^] {Ga 5:6; Ja 2:20; Ja 2:26}

|18| But one will say, "You have faith, and I have works." [quotation may end
here or continue through end of this verse or next verse] Show me your faith
without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. {Ro 3:28; Ro 4:6;
Ga 5:6; He 11:33; Ja 3:13} |19| You believe in one God? [literally ^that God is
one^] {De 6:4; Mk 12:29; 1Co 8:4-6} You do well. The demons also believe and
tremble. {Mt 8:29; Mk 1:24; Mk 5:7; Lk 4:34; Ac 19:15} |20| But are you willing
to ^understand^, [literally ^know^] vain man, that faith without works is dead?
{Ga 5:6; Ja 2:17; Ja 2:26} |21| Was not Abraham our father justified by works,
offering up Isaac his son on the altar? {Ge 22:9, 10, 12, 16-18} |22| You see
that faith worked with his work, {Jhn 6:29; He 11:17} and by the works, [or ^by
the deeds^] the faith was perfected, {1Th 1:3} [or ^completed^] |23| and the
Scripture was fulfilled that says, "And Abraham believed God, and it was
counted to him for righteousness," {Ge 15:6; Ro 4:3} and he was called friend
of God. {2Ch 20:7; Is 41:8} |24| You see then that a man is justified by works
and not only by faith. |25| And likewise also was not Rahab the harlot
justified by works, {He 11:31} entertaining the messengers and sending ^them^
out by another way? {Jsh 2:4, 6, 15} |26| ^Just^ as the body without the spirit
is dead, so also faith without works is dead. {Ga 5:6; Ja 2:17, 20}
