~ James 3 ~

= Controlling the Tongue =

|1| Not many ^of you should^ become teachers, my brothers, {Matt 23:8, Rom 2:20-
29, 1Tim 1:7} knowing that we will receive greater [or ^stricter^] judgment. |2|
For we all stumble ^in^ many ^ways^. {1 Kings 8:46; Romans 3:9-20; James 2:10; 1
John 1:8} If anyone stumbles not in word, this ^is^ a mature man, {Psalm 39:1;
Proverbs 10:19; 1 Peter 3:10; Matt 12:34-37; Jas 1:26} able also to bridle the
whole body.

|3| Behold, we put bits in the mouths of the horses, for them to obey us, and we
turn about their whole body. {Ps 32:9} |4| Behold also the ships, being so
great, [^great^ as in ^large^] and being driven by hard [or ^strong^] winds, are
directed by a very little rudder, ^to^ where the impulse of the ^person^
steering purposes. [or ^desires^ or ^directs^] |5| So also the tongue is a
little ^part of the body^, [literally ^member^] and ^yet it^ boasts ^of^ great
things. {Ps 12:3-4; Ps 73:8-9} Behold how a little fire [or ^spark^] kindles [or
^sets aflame^] ^a^ great wood; [or ^large forest^] {Prov 26:20-28} |6| and the
tongue ^is^ a fire, {Ps 120:2-3; Prov 16:27} the world of iniquity; so the
tongue is set among ^our parts^, [literally ^the members of us^] ^corrupting^
[literally ^spotting^] all the body, {Matt 12:36, Matt 15:11, Matt 15:18, Matt
15:19} and inflaming the course of nature, [or ^sets the course of life on
fire^] and being inflamed by ^hell^. {Matt 5:22} [The literal word used instead
of ^hell^ is ^Gehenna.^ ^Gehenna^ is derived from a place outside ancient
Jerusalem known in the Hebrew Bible as the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, one of
the two principal valleys surrounding the Old City. The term has been
interpretted as analogous to the concept of Hell. In the New Testament, the term
^Gehenna^ is used as a name for the place of punishment of the damned. Jews used
the name of this valley to designate the abode of the damned.]

|7| For every ^creature^, [or ^nature^ or ^species^] both of beasts and of
birds, both of reptiles and of sea animals, is tamed and has been tamed by the
human ^creature^; [or ^nature^] |8| but the tongue no ^man^ [literally ^one of
men^] is able to tame; ^it is^ an unrestrainable evil, full of poison,
death-dealing. {Ps 140:3; Eccl 10:11; Rom 3:13} |9| By this we bless ^our^ God and
Father, and by this we curse men having come ^into^ being according to ^the^
image of God. {Ge 1:26, 27; 1Co 11:7} |10| Out of the same mouth comes forth
blessing and cursing; it is not fitting, my brothers, ^for^ these things to be
so. |11| ^Can^ the fountain out of the same hole send forth the sweet [or
^fresh^] and the bitter? |12| Is ^it^ not ^impossible^, [or ^able^] my brothers,
^for^ a fig-tree to produce olives or a vine figs? {Matt 7:16} So neither ^can^
a fountain produce salt and sweet [or ^fresh^] water.

# = Wisdom from Above =
# 13-18

(This chapter has not been fully translated yet. Errors may exist in the content currently displayed.)
