~ Jude 1 ~

|1| Jude, [or ^Judas^] {Mt 13:55; Mk 6:3; Jhn 14:22; Ac 1:13} a slave [or
^servant^] {Ti 1:1} of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, [or ^Jacob^] to
those having been set apart [or ^loved^ or ^sanctified^] in God ^the^ Father,
{Ro 1:6; Ro 1:7} and having been kept [or ^called^] by [or ^for^ or ^in^] Jesus
Christ: {Jhn 17:12; 1Pt 1:5}

|2| Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. {Ga 6:16; 1Tm 1:2; 1Pt 1:2;
2Pt 1:2}

= The Sin and Punishment of the Ungodly =

|3| Beloved, {He 6:9; Jud 1:17,20} making all diligence to write to you about
the common salvation, I had necessity to write to you, exhorting ^you^ to
earnestly contend for the faith once delivered to the saints. [or ^holy ones^]
{Ac 6:7; Jud 1:20} |4| For certain men crept in, {Ga 2:4; 2Tm 3:6} those ^who
long ago were^ [literally ^of old having been previously^] written into this
judgment, [or ^marked out for condemnation^] ungodly ones ^who^ pervert the
grace of our God for unbridled lust and deny our only Master God and our Lord
Jesus Christ. {2Tm 2:12; Ti 1:16; 1Pt 2:8; 2Pt 2:1,7,21; 1Jn 2:22}

|5| But I intend ^to remind^ you ^that^ you once knew these things, {2Pt 1:12;
2Pt 1:13; 2Pt 3:1; 2Pt 3:2; 1Jn 2:20} that the Lord [some early manuscripts use
the word ^Jesus^ or ^Joshua^ or ^God^] saved people out of ^the^ land of Egypt,
^and thereafter^ [or ^in the second place^] He destroyed those ^who did^ not
believe. {Ex 12:51; De 1:32; De 2:15; Ps 106:26; 1Co 10:5; He 3:16; He 3:17}
|6| Angels and those who did not keep their first place, but deserted their
dwelling place, He has kept in eternal chains under blackness for a great day
of judgement. {2Pt 2:4; 2Pt 2:9} |7| Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around
them, in a similar manner to these, committed fornication and went away after
other [or ^strange^ or ^different^] flesh, {Ge 19:24-38; De 29:23; 2Pt 2:2}
[full phrase is ^and went away after other flesh laid before times^] an example
of undergoing ^the^ everlasting fire ^of^ vengeance. {Mt 25:41; 2Th 1:8-12; 2Pt
2:6; 2Pt 3:7}

|8| Likewise indeed also these dreamers defile even flesh, despise ^authority^
[or ^lordship^] , and speak evil of glories. [likely angels or celestial
beings] {2Pt 2:10} |9| But the archangel Michael, {Da 10:13; Da 10:21; Da 12:1;
Rv 12:7} when contending with the Devil, ^when arguing^ [or ^he argued^] about
the body of Moses, {De 34:6} he dared not bring a judgment of blasphemy, but
said, "Let ^the^ Lord rebuke you." {Zch 3:2; 2Pt 2:11} [alluding to the Jewish
^Testament of Moses^ written approximately in the first century A.D.] |10| But
these speak evil of what things they ^do^ not know; {2Pt 2:12} and what things
they understand naturally, as animals without reason, [or what things they
understand by instinct] by these they are corrupted. {Php 3:19} |11| Woe to
them, because they went in the way of Cain {Ge 4:3-8; He 11:4; 1Jn 3:12} and
gave themselves to the error of Balaam ^for^ reward, {Nu 31:16; 2Pt 2:15; Rv
2:14} and in the ^rebellion^ [or ^gainsaying^] of Korah ^they^ perished! {Nu
16:1-3; Nu 16:31-35} |12| These are the rocky reefs in your love feasts,
feasting together with you, {1Co 11:20-22; 2Pt 2:13} feeding themselves without
fear, {Ek 34:2; Ek 34:8; Ek 34:10} waterless clouds having been carried about
by winds, {Prv 25:14; 2Pt 2:17} autumn trees without fruit, twice dying having
been uprooted, {Mt 15:13} |13| wild waves of ^the^ sea, {Is 57:20; Eph 4:14}
foaming up shame for themselves, {Php 3:19} wandering stars for whom the
blackness of darkness has been ^reserved^ [or ^kept^] ^forever^. [literally ^to
the age^] {2Pt 2:17; Jud 1:6}

|14| Enoch, {Ge 5:18; Ge 5:21-24} ^the^ seventh from Adam, also prophesied to
these saying:

    Behold, ^the^ Lord came with myriads of His saints [or ^holy ones^] {De
    33:2; Da 7:10; Mt 16:27; He 12:22} |15| to do judgment against all {2Pt
    2:6-9} and to rebuke all the ungodly ^because of^ [or ^concerning^] all
    the ungodly works they did and about all the ^harsh^ [literally ^hard^]
    things which ungodly sinners spoke against Him. [taken from the Jewish
    ^First Book of Enoch^ written approximately in the first century B.C.]
    {1Tm 1:9}

|16| These are murmurers, complainers, {Nu 16:11; Nu 16:41; 1Co 10:10}
following ^after^ [or ^according to^] their lusts, {2Pt 2:10; Jud 1:18} and
their mouths speak of proud things {2Pt 2:18} ^showing admiration^ [literally
^admiring faces^] to gain ^an advantage^. [literally ^for the sake of you^]
{2Pt 2:3}

= Persevere in the Love of God =

|17| But beloved, remember the words spoken before by the apostles {Eph 4:11}
of our Lord, Jesus Christ, {He 2:3; 2Pt 3:2} |18| because they told you that in
the last ^days^ [literally ^at the last time^] {Ac 20:29; 1Tm 4:1; 2Tm 4:3; 2Pt
3:3} ^there^ will be mockers following their own ungodly lusts. {2Pt 2:1; 2Pt
3:3} |19| They divide themselves apart like animals not having ^the^ Spirit.
{1Co 2:14-15} |20| But you, beloved, by building yourselves up ^in^ your most
holy faith, {Co 2:7; 1Th 5:11} praying in the Holy Spirit, {Eph 6:18} |21| keep
yourselves in ^the^ love of God, {Ti 2:13; He 9:28; 2Pt 3:12} eagerly awaiting
the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to everlasting life. {Mt 25:46} |22| And
truly pity some, ^with disernment^, [literally ^making distinction^] {1Co
2:14-15} |23| but save others with fear, snatching ^them^ out of the fire, {Am
4:11; Zch 3:2-5; 1Co 3:15} hating even the garment [^garmet^ from the Greek
word ^chiton^, a long garment worn under the cloak next to the skin] stained
from the flesh. {Rv 3:4}

= Exhortation and Benediction =

|24| To Him ^who is^ able {Ro 16:25} to keep you from stumbling, and set ^you^
before His glory {2Co 4:14} without blemish {Co 1:22} ^and^ with exultation,
{1Pt 4:13} |25| to ^the^ only wise God our Savior, {Jnh 5:44; Lk 1:47; 1Tm
1:17} ^be^ glory and greatness, might and majesty, ^both^ [or ^even^] now and
through all the ages. Amen. {Ro 11:36; He 13:8}
