~ 1 Peter 4 ~

|1|
Christ therefore having suffered for us in ^the^ flesh, also you the same
mind arm yourselves, because he suffering in ^the^ flesh has ceased from sin;

|2|
for the no longer of men in ^the^ lusts, but in ^the^ will of God the
remaining in ^the^ flesh to live time.

|3|
Sufficient for to us the having passed away time of life of the will of the
nations having worked out, having gone ^on^ in wantonness, lusts,
drunkennesses, parties, carousings, and unlawful idolatries.

|4|
While they are surprised not running with you into the same of
dissoluteness overflow, blaspheming;

|5|
who will give account to the ^one^ ready having to judge living and dead.

|6|
For this for indeed to dead ones was the preached gospel that they might be
judged indeed according to men in ^the^ flesh; might live but according to God
in ^the^ spirit.

|7|
Of all things bug the end has drawn near. Be disciplined, then, and be
sensible to prayers;

|8|
before all things and to yourselves love fervent having, because love will
cover a multitude of sins.

|9|
Be hospitable to one another without murmurings;

|10|
each one as he received a gift, to yourselves it ministering as good
stewards of ^the^ manifold grace of God;

|11|
if any speaks, as ^the^ words of God; if any ministers, as by strength
which suppliers God, that in all things may be glorified God through Jesus
Christ, to whom is the glory and the might to the ages of the ages. Amen.

|12|
Beloved, do not be astonished ^at^ among you fiery trial, for trial of you
happening, as a surprise to you occurring,

|13|
but as you share the of Christ sufferings, rejoice, that also at the
revelation of the glory of him you may rejoice exultingly

|14|
if you are reviled in ^the^ name of Christ, blessed ^are you^, for the of
glory and the of God spirit on you rests; according to truly them, he is
blasphemed; according to but you, he is glorified.

|15|
Not for any of you let suffer as a murderer, or thief, or an evildoer, or
as a meddler;

|16|
if but as a Christian, not let him be ashamed, to glorify but God in
respect this.

|17|
Because the time to begin the judgement from the house of God; if and
firstly from us, what ^will be^ the end of those disobeying the of God gospel?

|18|
And if the righteous one scarcely is saved, the ungodly and SINNER WHERE
WILL APPEAR?

|19|
So as indeed those suffering according to will Godâ€™s, as to a faithful
Creator, let him commit the souls of themselves in well-doing.