~ 1 Thessalonians 4 ~

|1| For the rest, then, brothers, we beseech you and we exhort in ^the^ Lord
Jesus, even as you received from us how it behoves you to walk and to please
God, that you abound more.

|2| For you know what injunctions we gave you through the Lord Jesus.

|3| For this is ^the^ will of God, your sanctification, your abstinence from
fornication,

|4| ^that^ each one of you know ^how^ to possess [or ^acquire^] his own vessel
[or ^body^] in purity and honor,

|5| not in lustful passion, even as ^do^ also the nations ^who do^ not know God,

|6| not to go beyond [or ^overstep^ or ^transgress^] and to overreach [or
^defraud^] his brother in the matter, because ^the^ avenger the Lord ^is^
concerned ^with^ all these, as indeed we told you and solemnly witnessed before.

|7| For God ^did^ not call us to uncleanness, but ^to^ [literally ^in^] purity.

|8| Therefore, those ^who^ despise ^this do not^ despise ^a^ man but God,
[literally ^those despising not man despises but God^] the ^one who^ also gives
His Holy Spirit to you.

|9| And concerning brotherly love, you have no need ^for us^ to write to you,
for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another,

|10| for indeed you do it toward all the brothers in all Macedonia. But we
exhort you, brothers, to abound more,

|11| and to try earnestly to be quiet, and to ^mind your own affairs^,
[literally ^practice the own^] and to work with your own hands, as you we
enjoined, [or ^charged^ or ^commanded^]

|12| that you may walk becomingly toward those outside, and ^that^ you may have
need of nothing.

|13| And I do not desire you to be ignorant, brothers, about those sleeping,
lest you grieve as ^do^ the rest, [literally ^also as the rest^] not having
hope.

|14| For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so also God will bring
with him those having slept through Jesus.

|15| For this we say to you by a word of ^the^ Lord, that we the living ^who^
remain to the coming of the Lord may not at all go before those having slept.

|16| Because the Lord himself, with a word of command, by a voice of an
archangel, and with a trumpet of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in
Christ will rise again firstly.

|17| Then we the living remaining together with them will be caught up in clouds
to a meeting of the Lord in ^the^ air, so we will be always with ^the^ Lord.

|18| So then comfort one another with these words.
