~ 1 Thessalonians 2 ~

|1| For you yourselves know, brothers, [the plural of the Greek word ^adelphoi^
here translated as ^brothers^ refers to siblings in a family; depending on
context, ^adelphoi^ may refer either to men or to both men and women who are
siblings; word also appears in 1:4, 2:9, 14, 17; 3:7; 4:1, 10, 13; 5:1, 4, 12,
14, 25, 27] that our ^visit^ [literally ^entrance^] to you, has not been in
vain.

|2| But also having suffered before and having been insulted, as you know, in
Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God, ^amid^
[literally ^in^] much struggle. [or ^conflict^ or ^opposition^]

|3| For our exhortation [or ^appeal^] ^was^ not ^in^ [literally ^of^] error. Nor
of uncleanness. Nor in guile. [or ^deceit^]

|4| But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted ^with^ the gospel, so we
speak, not to please men, but God, the ^one who^ tests [or ^approves^ or
^examines^] our hearts.

|5| For neither then did we ^use^ flattering words, [or ^speech^] as you know,
nor with covetousness pretext; God ^is^ witness.

|6| Nor ^did we^ seek glory from men, neither from you, nor from others, being
able ^to assert our authority^ [or ^to be burdensome^; literally ^being able to
be with heaviness^] as apostles of Christ.

|7| But we were gentile [some manuscripts read ^like young children^] in your
midsts, as when a nurse should cherish her ^own^ children. [some manuscripts use
the word ^infants^]

|8| ^Having such^ longing for you, [or ^being so fond of you^] we were well-
pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our ^own^ souls,
[or ^lives^] because you have become beloved to us.

|9| For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil, working night and day, in
order to not put a burden on anyone of you, ^while^ we proclaimed to you the
gospel of God.

|10| You ^are^ witnesses, and ^so is^ God, ^to^ how holily and righteously and
blamelessly we were to you, those believing,

|11|
even as you know how each one of you, as a father his own children,

|12| exhorting you and consoling and testifying for you to walk worthily of God,
^who^ calls you to his kingdom and glory.

|13| And we therefore give thanks to God without ceasing, [or ^constantly^] that
having received ^the^ word of God from hearing us, you welcomed ^it^, not ^as^ a
word of men, [the Greek word ^anthropoi^ translated here as ^men^ can refer to
both men and women] but as it truly is, a word of God, which also works in you,
those believing.

|14| For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God being in Judea
in Christ Jesus, because you ^have^ also suffered these things by ^your^ own
fellow countrymen, as also they ^did^ by the Jews, [Greek word ^Ioudaioi^
translated here ^Jews^ can refer to Jewish religious leaders and others under
their influence who opposed the Christian faith]

|15| those ^who^ both killed the Lord Jesus and ^their^ own prophets and ^have^
driven us ^out^ [or ^persecuted us^] and ^are^ not pleasing God and ^are^
contrary to all men,

|16| hindering us to speak to the nations, that they be saved, to fill up their
sins always, but the wrath has come on them to ^the^ end. [or ^completely^,
^forever^, or ^altogether^]

|17| But we brothers, being taken away from you for an hour of time, [or ^a
short time^] in face, [or ^in person^] not in heart, [or ^in spirit^] were more
abundantly eager with much desire to see your face.

|18| Therefore we desired to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and twice,
[or ^again and again^ or ^more than once^] and Satan hindered us,

|19| For what ^is^ our hope of joy or crown of boasting? ^Are^ not even you
before our Lord, Jesus Christ at his coming? [or ^presence^]

|20| For you are our glory and joy.
