~ 1 Thessalonians 1 ~

|1| Paul and Silvanus [^Silvanus^ is the Greek variant of ^Silas^] and Timothy
to the church of ^the^ Thessalonians in God ^the^ Father, and ^the^ Lord Jesus
Christ: Grace to you and peace from God ^our^ Father and ^the^ Lord Jesus
Christ. [final clause that starts with ^from God^ not found in all manuscripts]

|2| We give thanks to God always [or ^without ceasing^] concerning you all,
making mention of you ^in^ [literally ^on^] our prayers,

|3| unceasingly remembering your work of faith, and the labor of love, and the
patience [or ^perseverance^ or ^steadfastness^] of hope ^in^ [literally ^of^]
our Lord, Jesus Christ, before [or ^in the sight of^ or ^in the presence of^]
our God and Father, [final clause that starts with ^before^ not found in all
manuscripts]

|4| knowing, brothers ^who are^ [literally ^having been^] loved by God, your
election [the plural of the Greek word ^adelphoi^ here translated as ^brothers^
refers to siblings in a family; depending on context, ^adelphoi^ may refer
either to men or to both men and women who are siblings; word also appears in
2:1, 9, 14, 17; 3:7; 4:1, 10, 13; 5:1, 4, 12, 14, 25, 27]

|5| because our gospel ^did^ not came to you in word only, but also in power,
and in ^the^ Holy Spirit, and ^with^ [literlaly ^in^] much assurance, as you
know what sort we were among you because of you.

|6| And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, welcoming the word in
affliction with much joy of ^the^ Holy Spirit,

|7| so ^that^ you become patterns to all those believing in Macedonia and Achaia.

|8| For the word of the Lord sounded from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia,
but also in every place your faith toward God has gone ^forth^, [literally
^out^] so ^there is^ no need for us to have to ^say^ [literally ^speak^]
anything.

|9| For ^they^ themselves announce about us what kind of ^reception^ [literally
^entrance^] we have ^with^ you, and how you had turned to God from the idols, to
serve ^the^ living and true God,

|10| and to await the His Son from the heavens, whom He raised from ^the^ dead,
Jesus. He delivers us from the coming wrath.
