~ James 5 ~

= A Warning to the Rich =

|1| Come now rich ones, weep, crying aloud over the hardships of you coming
upon.

|2| The riches of you have rotted, and the garments of you moth-eaten have
become;

|3| the gold of you and the silver have rusted over, and the poison of them for
a testimony to you will be, and will eat the flesh of you as fire. You heaped
treasure in ^the^ last days.

|4| Behold, the wages of the workmen having reaped the fields of you being kept
back from you cries out, and the cries of those having reaped into the ears of
^the^ Lord of Hosts have entered.

|5| You lived luxuriously on the earth, and lived riotously, you nourished the
hearts of you as in a day of slaughter.

|6| You condemned, you murdered the righteous; not he resists you.

= Patience in Suffering =

|7| Be longsuffering, then, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the
farmer awaits the precious fruit of the earth, being longsuffering over it until
it may receive rain ^the^ early and latter.

|8| Be long-suffering also you, establish the hearts of you, because the coming
of the Lord has drawn near,

|9| not murmur against one another, brothers, that not you be judged; behold,
the Judge before the door stands,

|10| an example take of suffering ill, brothers of me, and of longsuffering; the
prophets who spoke in the name of ^the^ Lord.

|11| Behold, we count blessed those enduring. The patience of Job you have heard
^of^, and the end of ^the^ Lord you saw, that very compassionate is the Lord and
pitying.

|12| Before all things but, bothers of me, do not swear, neither by the heaven,
not by the earth, not other any oath; let be but of you the yes, yes, and the
no, no, that not under judgement you fall.

= The Prayer of Faith =

|13| Suffers ill any among you? Let him pray. Is cheerful any? Let him sing.

|14| Is infirm any among you? Let him summon the elders of the church, and let
them pray over him, having anointed him with oil in the name of the Lord.

|15| And the prayer of faith will cure those being sick, and will raise him the
Lord; and if sin he may be having done it will be forgiven him.

|16| Confess to one another the offenses, and pray for one another, so as you
may be healed, much ^is^ strong a petition of one righteous being made
effective.

|17| Elijah a man was of like feeling to us, and in prayer he prayed not to
rain, and not it rained on the earth years three and months six.

|18| And again he prayed, and the heaven rain gave, and the earth produced the
fruit of it.

|19| Brothers, if anyone among you errs from the truth, and turns anyone him,

|20| know that the ^one^ turning a sinner from ^the^ error of way of him will
save ^the^ soul from death, and will hide a multitude of sins.
