~ James 4 ~

= Submission to God =

|1| From where ^do^ wars and fights among you ^come^? ^Is it^ not from this,
from your lusts [or ^desires^ or ^pleasures^] warring [or ^battling^] in your
members?

|2| You desire and ^do^ not have. You murder and are jealous [or ^covet^] and
are not able to obtain. You fight and you war, [or ^quarrel^] and you do not
have because you ^do^ not ask.

|3| You ask, and you ^do^ not receive, because you ask wrongly, [ask with wrong
motives, or ^wicketdly^] ^so^ that on your lusts you may spend.

|4| Adulterers and adulteresses, do you not know that friendship ^with^
[literally ^of^] the world is enmity ^with^ [literally ^of^] God? Whoever then
purposes [or ^wishes^] to be a friend of the world is shown to be an enemy of
God.

|5| Or do you think that Scripture says vainly, "^He^ yearns envyiously ^for^
the spirit which has dwelt in us"?

|6| But he gives greater grace. Therefore, it says: "God sets ^himself^ against
the proud, [literally ^proud ones^] but he gives grace to the humble."
[literally ^humble ones^]

|7| Therefore, be subject to God; oppose the devil, and he will flee from you.

|8| Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse ^your^ hands, ^you^
sinners, and purity ^your^ hearts, ^you^ double-minded. [literally ^two-souled
ones^]

|9| Be distressed and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning
and ^your^ joy to shame.

|10| Be humbled before the Lord, and He will exalt you.

|11| Do not speak against one another, brothers. He ^who^ speaks against a
brother and judges his brother speaks against ^the^ law and judges ^the^ law.
And if you judge ^the^ law, you are not a doer of law but a judge.

|12| ^There^ is one Lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you to
judge the other?

= Boasting About Tomorrow =

|13| Come now, those ^who^ say, "Today or tomorrow we will go into this city,
and we will spend one year there, and we will trade and will make a profit."

|14| ^You^ who ^do^ not know of tomorrow. [or ^what will happen tomorrow^] What
^is^ your life? [or ^what kind of life is yours^; literally ^what for the life
of you^] For it is a mist, which for a little ^while^ appears and then
disappears.

|15| Instead you ^should^ say, "If the Lord wills, we will live [literally ^even
we will live^] and we will do this or that."

|16| But now you boast in your vauntings [or ^proud disposition^ or
^pretensions^]; all such boasting is evil.

|17| To ^the one^ then ^who^ knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is
sin.
