~ James 5 ~

= A Warning to the Rich =

|1| Come now, rich ones, weep, cry aloud over the hardships ^that^ come upon
^you^.

|2| Your riches have rotted, and your garments have become moth-eaten.

|3| Your gold and silver have rusted over, and their poison will be to you a
testimony, and ^it^ will eat your flesh as fire. You heaped [or ^hoarded^]
treasure [or ^wealth^] in ^the^ last days.

|4| Behold, the wages of the workmen ^who^ have reaped [or ^mowed^ or
^harvested^] your fields, being kept back ^by^ you, [or ^that you failed to
pay^] cries out, and the cries of those having reaped [or ^mowed^ or
^harvested^] have entered into the ears of ^the^ Lord of Hosts.

|5| You lived luxuriously on the earth, and lived riotously; you nourished [or
^fattened^] your hearts as in a day of slaughter. [or ^feasting^]

|6| You condemned, you murdered the righteous; he ^does^ not resist you.

= Patience in Suffering =

|7| Be longsuffering, [or ^patient^] then, brothers, until the coming of the
Lord. Behold, the farmer awaits the precious fruit of the earth, being
longsuffering [or ^patient^] over it until it may receive ^the^ early and latter
rain.

|8| You also be longsuffering, [or ^patient^] establish your hearts, because the
coming of the Lord has drawn near.

|9| ^Do^ not murmur [or ^grumble^, ^groan^, or ^complain^] against one another,
brothers, ^so^ that you ^will^ not be judged. Behold, the Judge stands before
the door.

|10| Take ^as^ an example of suffering ill and of longsuffering, [or ^patience^]
my brothers, the prophets who spoke in the name of ^the^ Lord.

|11| Behold, we count ^as^ blessed those ^who are^ enduring. [or ^steadfast^, or
^persevering^] You have heard ^of^ the patience of Job, and you saw the end [or
^outcome^] of ^the^ Lord, that the Lord is very compassionate and pitying.

|12| But before all things, my bothers, do not swear, neither by heaven, not by
the earth, not any other oath. But let your yes be yes, and the no, no; ^so^
that you ^will^ not fall under judgement. [or ^condemnation^]

= The Prayer of Faith =

|13| ^Are^ any among you suffers ^of^ ill? Let him pray. Are any cheerful? Let
him sing.

|14| Are any among you infirmed? [or ^sick^] Let him summon the elders of the
church, and let them pray over him, having anointed him with oil in the name of
the Lord.

|15| And the prayer of faith will cure [or ^save^, or ^restore^] those being
sick and will raise him ^to^ the Lord; and if he may have done ^any^ sin, it
will be forgiven him.

|16| Confess to one another ^your^ offenses, and pray for one another, so ^that^
you may be healed. ^The^ petition [or ^prayer^, or ^supplication^] of a
righteous one being made effective ^has^ much strength. [or ^power^]

|17| Elijah was a man of like feeling [or ^similar nature^] to us, and in prayer
he prayed ^for it^ not to rain, and it ^did^ not rain on the earth ^for^ three
years and six months.

|18| And again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its
fruit.

|19| Brothers, if anyone among you errs from the truth and turns anyone ^with^
him,

|20| know that the ^one^ turning a sinner from ^the^ error of his ways will
save ^the^ soul from death and will hide [of ^cover^] a multitude of sins.
